I am going to try and work through this initially to comply with the "Engineering Technician" level of the UK Engineering specification level.

At the moment I have the TMIET designatory letters.

I have attached the appendix of the specification, and the source document for 'section E' to this sheet. Re-applying protection to sheets breaks the ability to open attached PDF files.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Engineering Technicians apply proven techniques and procedures to the solution of practical engineering problems.

Engineering Technicians are required to apply safe systems of work and are able to demonstrate:
	• Evidence of their contribution to either the design, development, manufacture, commissioning, decommissioning, operation or maintenance of products, equipment, processes or services
	• Supervisory or technical responsibility
	• Effective interpersonal skills in communicating technical matters
	• Commitment to professional engineering values.
	
# The Competence and Commitment Standard for Engineering Technicians.

Engineering Technicians must be competent throughout their working life, by virtue of their education, training and experience, to:

A - Use engineering knowledge and understanding to apply technical and practical skills.

	A1 - Review and select appropriate techniques, procedures and methods to undertake tasks.
	A2 - Use appropriate scientific, technical or engineering principles.

B - Contribute to the design, development, manufacture, construction, commissioning, operation or maintenance of products, equipment, processes, systems or services.

	B1 - Identify problems and apply appropriate methods to identify causes and achieve satisfactory solutions
	B2 - Identify, organise and use resources effectively to complete tasks, with consideration for cost, quality, safety, security and environmental impact.
	B3 - n/a

C - Accept and exercise personal responsibility.

	C1 - Work reliably and effectively without close supervision, to the appropriate codes of practice.
	C2 - Accept responsibility for work of self or others.
	C3 - Accept, allocate and supervise technical and other tasks.
	C4 - n/a

D - Use effective communication and interpersonal skills.

	D1 - Use oral, written and electronic methods for the communication in English of technical and other information
	D2 - Work effectively with colleagues, clients, suppliers or the public, and be aware of the needs and concerns of others, especially where related to diversity and equality.
	D3 - n/a

E - Make a personal commitment to an appropriate code of professional conduct, recognising obligations to society, the profession and the environment.

	E1 - Comply with the Code of Conduct of your institution.
	E2 - Manage and apply safe systems of work.
	E3 - Undertake engineering work in a way that contributes to sustainable development. This could include an ability to:
		• Operate and act responsibly, taking account of the need to progress environmental, social and economic outcomes simultaneously.
	E4 - Carry out and record CPD necessary to maintain and enhance competence in own area of practice including:
		• Undertake reviews of own development needs
		• Plan how to meet personal and organisational objectives
		• Carry out planned (and unplanned) CPD activities 
		• Maintain evidence of competence development 
		• Evaluate CPD outcomes against any plans made
		• Assist others with their own CPD.
	E5 - Exercise responsibilities in an ethical manner.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Over my work history I have acquired several technical skills such as advanced IT skills, Analogue Electronics with a view to RF suppression, and the use of Analogue instrumentation methods and how to correctly apply them when they are the most appropriate solution.

I have experience of working with test equipment such as Spectrum Analysers, Oscilloscopes, Electromagnetic Probes, GTEM Cells, and Digital Multi-meters to analyse and interpret the physical response of a circuit and evaluate against theoretical and simulated responses.

I am experienced at deriving theoretical circuit responses mentioned above from first principles and allying mathematical principals.

Some projects I have worked on required me to reverse engineer products without any design documentation to gain an insight into how the original designer came up with the solution and what modifications should be done to improve performance or reduce cost. 

Once the product has been reverse engineered I was responsible for developing proposals such as improving the selection of components and addition of filtering to allow the device to fulfil its operational requirements and comply with EMC (Electromagnetic Compatibility) and LVD (Low Voltage Directive) directives.

This work was predominantly carried out alone, and without supervision. Research included taking notes, testing and analysing product performance, and reviewing datasheets and other technical specification documents. The use of test equipment was fundamental to this process, giving visibility on the inner workings of the circuits in the product. 

Whilst working at CASS industries, I was responsible for training my co-works in the operation of the EMC test laboratory and how to perform the tests required to certify customers equipment. This also involved making them aware of the required legislation and standards that covered different tests and classes of equipment, the Testing and Reporting workload was split between myself and the other co-workers, in the case of more technical products I would take responsibility for these due to the challenges involved with testing and reporting on them.

There was a requirement to identify a situation where a Jig would improve the productivity, efficiency or simplify a process, or even allow us to offer a service that we had not got the facilities to offer before. Once the requirement was identified, I would be responsible for designing and building test jigs using both mechanical and electrical cad and using a mixture of rapid prototyping and machine shop tools; The combining of 3D printed parts, COTS (Common Off The Shelf) parts, and Electronics requires the ability to visualise how the parts will interface

While working at JLR as an EMC Component Engineering, I have significantly improved my project and people management skills as I regularly communicate with both JLR employees and external stakeholders via Email, phone, and face to face. This includes meetings where I am the only person representing the EMC department of JLR and ensuring compliance with the legal requirements, and JLR engineering standards.

Some of the requirements I’m responsible for ensuring compliance with have safety impact, requiring the correct operation of the component over the vehicle’s entire life. One of the more problematic components I am working with is a ‘Hands on Detection’ ECU for a steering wheel, where I am collaborating with the component owner. I provide technical electrical guidance while he is talking to the manufacturer, while I also liaise with the testing facilities reporting the EMC failures and advise on component re-design to resolve the failed tests.

I have recently performed a research investigation into the applicability of GB 8702 and ICNIRP standards to JLRs line of EVs (electric vehicles). The outcome of this investigation was a presentation to my colleges with recommendations on EMC emission limits that should be applied by JLR to comply with the legal requirements in all markets. To support this work, I undertook an investigation on my own initiative to perform back to back comparison of three different types of Electromagnetic probes and justified my recommendation at the type most appropriate for supporting JLR in testing going forward. While there has been no formal change of test procedures yet, there is active discussion on what the best procedure is. I have been performing more investigation work to gain understanding about the issues around EMF and the implications regarding components within the vehicle. The longer-term output from this is to feed the understanding back into a revised version of the JLR component specification.

There is an on-gong project to build new EMC testing facilities within JLR, I was responsible for producing the technical requirements document for the two new labs, Amplifier room, and the auxiliary equipment. This document was used by three prospective suppliers to come up with technical proposals and quotes, and then was used as the basis for judging the submissions against the requirements. The outcome of this was that one supplier was awarded the work as they clearly managed to meet JLRs requirements and showed good value for money.

While at JLR I have continued to learn new skills, taking advantage of the companies training scheme to acquire more JLR qualifications that are relevant for my roll; I am also studying external courses on Coursera covering ADAS (Advanced driver-assistance systems), and other autonomous driving training, that are less focused on what I am currently doing in work, and more on where I would like to be in five years, working with more cutting edge technologies.

I hold the permits from JLR to work safely on ‘Lid off Batteries’, Live un-switched hazardous voltage, and de-power and lock off electric vehicles. I also have received training on how to perform formal and informal risk assessments, I can also authorise other staff to work on vehicles I have de powered.

Outside work I have several interests, such as industrial heritage, robotics, rapid prototyping, and photography. Some of my personal projects include: 

The Design and construction of an inexpensive PnP (pick and place) machine using common off the shelf aluminium extrusions profiles and parts of the body and mechanism are to be printed on an FDM (Fused Deposition Modelling) 3D printer. The 3D printed parts are designed by me in Fusion 360, while the PCBs are designed using KiCAD, and hand assembled.

The aim is to make a device that is easy and inexpensive to replicate and allows for the £2 level of PCBs from china to be populated in a home workshop. The objective of this project is to be able to reliably and repeatably place devices down to 0603 size. 

The Design and construction of a ROV (Remotely Operated Underwater Vehicle) that can be operated from a Laptop or iPad allowing the operator to explore underwater.

The main parts of the body are 3D printed on an FDM 3D printer. Parts of the pressure vessel are machined on a Laser Cutter, some of the smaller parts are printed using a DLP (Digital Light Processing) 3D printer.

Designing and development of a cheap educational robot platform that can be used to experiment with swarm behaviours, ML (Machine Learning) and AI (Artificial Intelligence).

This includes writing software and firmware in 'Arduino', Python and ROS (Robot Operating System).
